README.md, before:

# 🚚 ETS2 Dedicated Server Setup Script

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A comprehensive bash script for automating the setup and configuration of a Euro Truck Simulator 2 dedicated multiplayer server on Linux.

![Euro Truck Simulator 2](https://img.shields.io/badge/ETS2-Dedicated_Server-blue)

## 📋 Features

- **One-command setup** - Automatically installs and configures everything needed
- **Complete server management** - Start, stop, restart, and monitoring scripts
- **Systemd integration** - Run your server as a system service
- **Auto-recovery** - Monitors server status and restarts if crashed
- **Firewall configuration** - Automatically sets up required firewall rules
- **Detailed documentation** - Comprehensive usage instructions

## 🔧 Requirements

- Linux server (Ubuntu/Debian recommended)
- Sudo access
- Internet connection for downloading server files
- At least 1GB of free disk space
- Required packages: curl, unzip, sudo, ufw, systemctl (installed automatically)

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ets2-server-setup.git
cd ets2-server-setup
```

2. Make the script executable:
```bash
chmod +x setup_ETS2_server.sh
```

3. Run the setup script:
```bash
./setup_ETS2_server.sh [YOUR_SERVER_TOKEN]
```
If you don't specify a server token, a default one will be used.

4. Start your server:
```bash
./start_ets2_server.sh
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

The setup script creates several configuration files:

- `ets2server/server_config.sii` - Main server configuration
- `ets2server/server_packages.sii` - Server packages information
- `ets2-server.service` - Systemd service configuration

You can customize these files to change various server settings such as:
- Server name and description
- Maximum player count
- Game settings (traffic, damage, etc.)
- Network settings

## 📊 Server Management

### Starting the Server

```bash
./start_ets2_server.sh
```

The server will run in the background. You can check the logs with:
```bash
tail -f ets2_server.log
```

### Stopping the Server

```bash
./stop_ets2_server.sh
```

### Restarting the Server

```bash
./restart_ets2_server.sh
```

### Monitoring

The script installs a monitoring service that checks if the server is running every 5 minutes and restarts it if needed.

## 🔥 Firewall Configuration

The script automatically opens the required ports in the firewall:
- TCP/UDP: 27015 (Game connection port)
- TCP/UDP: 27016 (Query port)

## ⚠️ Important Notes

For a fully functional server, you need to replace the placeholder server packages with real ones:

1. Install ETS2 on a desktop computer
2. Launch the game
3. Open the console (~) and type `export_server_packages`
4. Find the exported files in your Documents/Euro Truck Simulator 2 folder
5. Upload them to your server and place in the ets2server directory

## 📝 Troubleshooting

If the server fails to start, check:

1. The log file `ets2_server.log` for error messages
2. Ensure server_packages files are properly created and in correct locations
3. Verify the server_logon_token is correctly set in the configuration

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Feel free to check the [issues page](https://github.com/yourusername/ets2-server-setup/issues).

## 📜 License

This project is [MIT](LICENSE) licensed.

## 📚 Resources

- [Official ETS2 Dedicated Server Documentation](https://modding.scssoft.com/wiki/Documentation/Tools/Dedicated_Server)
- [SCS Forums](https://forum.scssoft.com/)

Commit message:

Update README.md to include user management feature details
Added a section outlining the new user management functionality for the ETS2 server setup script. This includes steps for creating a dedicated user when run as root, options for password generation, and instructions for continuing the installation process securely.

README.md, after:

# 🚚 ETS2 Dedicated Server Setup Script

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A comprehensive bash script for automating the setup and configuration of a Euro Truck Simulator 2 dedicated multiplayer server on Linux.

![Euro Truck Simulator 2](https://img.shields.io/badge/ETS2-Dedicated_Server-blue)

## 📋 Features

- **One-command setup** - Automatically installs and configures everything needed
- **Complete server management** - Start, stop, restart, and monitoring scripts
- **Systemd integration** - Run your server as a system service
- **Auto-recovery** - Monitors server status and restarts if crashed
- **Firewall configuration** - Automatically sets up required firewall rules
- **User management** - Creates a dedicated user when run as root
- **Detailed documentation** - Comprehensive usage instructions

## 🔧 Requirements

- Linux server (Ubuntu/Debian recommended)
- Sudo access
- Internet connection for downloading server files
- At least 1GB of free disk space
- Required packages: curl, unzip, sudo, ufw, systemctl (installed automatically)

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ets2-server-setup.git
cd ets2-server-setup
```

2. Make the script executable:
```bash
chmod +x setup_ETS2_server.sh
```

3. Run the setup script:
```bash
./setup_ETS2_server.sh [YOUR_SERVER_TOKEN]
```
If you don't specify a server token, a default one will be used.

4. Start your server:
```bash
./start_ets2_server.sh
```

## 🧑‍💻 User Management

When run as root, the script will:

1. Prompt to create a dedicated user for running the server
2. Offer options to:
   - Generate a random secure password
   - Set a password manually (with a 1-minute timeout)
3. Add the user to the sudo group
4. Copy the setup script to the new user's home directory
5. Provide instructions to continue installation as the new user

This ensures the server runs with proper permissions and follows security best practices.

## ⚙️ Configuration

The setup script creates several configuration files:

- `ets2server/server_config.sii` - Main server configuration
- `ets2server/server_packages.sii` - Server packages information
- `ets2-server.service` - Systemd service configuration

You can customize these files to change various server settings such as:
- Server name and description
- Maximum player count
- Game settings (traffic, damage, etc.)
- Network settings

## 📊 Server Management

### Starting the Server

```bash
./start_ets2_server.sh
```

The server will run in the background. You can check the logs with:
```bash
tail -f ets2_server.log
```

### Stopping the Server

```bash
./stop_ets2_server.sh
```

### Restarting the Server

```bash
./restart_ets2_server.sh
```

### Monitoring

The script installs a monitoring service that checks if the server is running every 5 minutes and restarts it if needed.

## 🔥 Firewall Configuration

The script automatically opens the required ports in the firewall:
- TCP/UDP: 27015 (Game connection port)
- TCP/UDP: 27016 (Query port)

## ⚠️ Important Notes

For a fully functional server, you need to replace the placeholder server packages with real ones:

1. Install ETS2 on a desktop computer
2. Launch the game
3. Open the console (~) and type `export_server_packages`
4. Find the exported files in your Documents/Euro Truck Simulator 2 folder
5. Upload them to your server and place in the ets2server directory

## 📝 Troubleshooting

If the server fails to start, check:

1. The log file `ets2_server.log` for error messages
2. Ensure server_packages files are properly created and in correct locations
3. Verify the server_logon_token is correctly set in the configuration

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Feel free to check the [issues page](https://github.com/yourusername/ets2-server-setup/issues).

## 📜 License

This project is [MIT](LICENSE) licensed.

## 📚 Resources

- [Official ETS2 Dedicated Server Documentation](https://modding.scssoft.com/wiki/Documentation/Tools/Dedicated_Server)
- [SCS Forums](https://forum.scssoft.com/)
